5.   Competent authorities may waive the condition set out in point (d) of paragraph 4 where Article 20(1)(b) is applied. In that case additional objective criteria as set out in the delegated act referred to in Article 460 have to be met. Where such higher inflow is permitted to be applied, the competent authorities shall inform EBA about the result of the process referred to in Article 20(1)(b). Fulfilment of the conditions for such higher inflows shall be regularly reviewed by the competent authorities.
6.   EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to further specify the additional objective criteria referred to in paragraph 5.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 1 January 2015.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
7.   Institutions shall not report inflows from any of the liquid assets reported in accordance with Article 416 other than payments due on the assets that are not reflected in the market value of the asset.
8.   Institutions shall not report inflows from any new obligations entered into.
9.   Institutions shall take liquidity inflows which are to be received in third countries where there are transfer restrictions or which are denominated in non-convertible currencies into account only to the extent that they correspond to outflows respectively in the third country or currency in question.
Article 426
Updating Future liquidity requirements
Following, the adoption by the Commission of a delegated act to specify the liquidity requirement in accordance with Article 460, EBA may develop draft implementing technical standards to specify the conditions set out in Article 421(1), Article 422, with the exception of paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of that Article, and Article 424 to take account of standards agreed internationally.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first paragraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
TITLE III
REPORTING ON STABLE FUNDING
Article 427
Items providing stable funding
1.   Institutions shall report to the competent authorities, in accordance with the reporting requirements set out in Article 415(1) and the uniform reporting formats referred to in Article 415(3), the following items and their components in order to allow an assessment of the availability of stable funding:
(a) the following own funds, after deductions have been applied, where appropriate:
(i) tier 1 capital instruments;
(ii) tier 2 capital instruments;
(iii) other preferred shares and capital instruments in excess of Tier 2 allowable amount having an effective maturity of one year or greater;
(b) the following liabilities not included in point (a):
(i) retail deposits that qualify for the treatment set out in Article 421(1);
(ii) retail deposits that qualify for the treatment set out in Article 421(2);
(iii) deposits that qualify for the treatment set out in Article 422 (3) and (4);
(iv) of the deposits referred to in point (iii), those that are subject to a deposit guarantee scheme in accordance with Directive 94/19/EC or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country deposit guarantees within the terms of Article 421(2);
(v) of the deposits referred to in point (iii), those that fall under point (b) of Article 422(3);
(vi) of the deposits referred to in point (iii), those that fall under point (d) of Article 422(3);
(vii) amounts deposited not falling under point (i), (ii) or (iii) if they are not deposited by financial customers;
(viii) all funding obtained from financial customers;
(ix) separately for amounts falling under points (vii) and (viii) respectively, funding from secured lending and capital market-driven transactions as defined in point (3) of Article 192:
— collateralised by assets that would qualify as liquid assets in accordance with Article 416;
— collateralised by any other assets;
(x) liabilities resulting from securities issued qualifying for the treatment set out in Article 129(4) or (5) or as referred to in Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC;
(xi) the following other liabilities resulting from securities issued that do not fall under point (a):
— liabilities resulting from securities issued with an effective maturity of one year or greater;
— liabilities resulting from securities issued with an effective maturity of less than one year;
(xii) any other liabilities.
Treatment of maturity mismatches in synthetic securitisations
For the purposes of calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts in accordance with Article 249, any maturity mismatch between the credit protection which constitutes a tranche and by which the transfer of risk is achieved and the securitised exposures shall be taken into consideration as follows:
(a) the maturity of the securitised exposures shall be taken to be the longest maturity of any of those exposures subject to a maximum of five years. The maturity of the credit protection shall be determined in accordance with Chapter 4;
(b) an originator institution shall ignore any maturity mismatch in calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts for tranches appearing pursuant to this Section with a risk weighting of 1 250 %. For all other tranches, the maturity mismatch treatment set out in Chapter 4 shall be applied in accordance with the following formula:
where:
RW*=risk-weighted exposure amounts for the purposes of Article 92(3)(a);
RWAss = risk-weighted exposure amounts for exposures if they had not been securitised, calculated on a pro-rata basis;
RWSP = risk-weighted exposure amounts calculated under Article 249 if there was no maturity mismatch;
T = maturity of the underlying exposures expressed in years;
t = maturity of credit protection. expressed in years;
t* = 0,25.