Article 3
Determination of total amount of annual contributions to be raised
The total amount of annual contributions to be raised for a given financial year shall be calculated on the basis of Part I of the budget adopted by the Board for that financial year in accordance with Article 61 of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014, adjusted by the result of the budget of the latest financial year for which the final accounts have been published in accordance with Article 63(7) of that Regulation.
The Board shall determine the total amount of annual contributions so that Part I of the budget of the Board is balanced.
Article 4
Allocation of total amount of annual contributions
1.   The total amount to be raised in accordance with Article 3 shall be allocated as follows:
(a) 95 % to the following entities and groups:
(i) entities and groups referred to in Article 7(2) of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014;
(ii) entities and groups with regard to which the Board has decided to exercise powers under Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 pursuant to Article 7(4)(b) of that Regulation;
(iii) entities and groups in relation to which participating Member States have decided in accordance with Article 7(5) of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 that the Board exercise powers and responsibilities conferred to it by that Regulation;
(b) 5 % to entities and groups referred to in Article 7(3) of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014.
2.   Without prejudice to Article 7, the Board shall assign entities and groups to one of the two categories laid down in paragraph 1 based on the data which the ECB provides to the Board in accordance with Article 6(1) or Article 11, as applicable.
3.   Where an entity falls under the scope of paragraph 1(a), all the entities that are part of the same group shall be assigned to the same category.
4.   The Board shall report yearly to the Commission on the appropriateness of the allocation laid down in paragraph 1, in the light of the changing composition of the two categories of entities and groups.
Article 5
Calculation of the individual annual contributions
1.   The Board shall calculate the individual annual contributions due for each financial year on the basis of the data received in accordance with Article 6 and the total amount of annual contributions as determined in accordance with Article 3.
2.   For the purposes of calculating the individual annual contributions, the Board shall apply the provisions laid down in Article 10(1), (2) and (3) and Article 10(6)(a), (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1163/2014.
3.   For the purpose of applying the provisions referred to in paragraph 2:
(a) ‘annual supervisory fee’ means individual annual contribution;
(b) ‘significant supervised entity’ or ‘significant supervised group’ means an entity or group as referred to in Article 4(1)(a);
(c) ‘less significant supervised entity’ or ‘less significant supervised group’ means an entity or group as referred to in Article 4(1)(b);
(d) ‘supervised entity’ or ‘supervised group’ means any entity or group;
(e) ‘fee debtor’ means contribution debtor.
