1	The time came when I had to change my mind.
2	Those were the days when everybody had flowers in their hair.
?	I suppose the day will inevitably come when the area will be encrusted with developments.
1	Never had Mary thought the day would come when Dora May’s silence would be unwelcome.
2	There would be only a few more nights now when he would have to dine in Hall with that odious man.
3	The day will come, in midsummer, when you find your plants becoming ‘leggy’, running to tall-growing foliage at the expense of blossoms.
1	There will come a time in a basement shelter when the radiation has decayed enough to allow use of the whole basement.
1	And the women sighed for the day when their men would be expelled from the womb for the last time.
1	On the third panel were all the details, specifications and costs and — more to Charles’s interest — the projected dates when work on the building would commence and when be finished
2	Then the Vicar pointed to the trees, young and old, that had been planted on the green, witnessing to other occasions when the village had been at one.
2	The vast, dungeon kitchens may seem hardly worth using except on occasions when one is faced with a thousand unexpected guests for lunch.
1	A British estate agent, Mr Moliz Fleischmann, of St John’s Wood, London, told the court trying Adolf Eichmann, today, of the occasion 23 years ago when he faced the Nazi leader across a desk in the Gestapo’s Vienna headquarters.
3	The most awful day of the week is Monday, when I have to get up at 5 a.m. to catch the train.
1	The next time we will meet is next Sunday, when we will have more time than we did today.
1	Later on I will give you instructions concerning next Tuesday, when I will be in Glasgow.
1	The Elections Committee will soon be looking forward to 1996, when there will be elections for Borough Councils throughout London.
1	He left the week when I arrived.
1	He left during the week when I arrived.
?	He had said that to Colin in the days when he had had to open his heart to someone.
1	That had happened on the day when two other unusual things had occurred.
?	I grew up in an age when there was a great deal of hypocrisy about women’s sexual misfortunes
?	She expected he would do it on a day when she herself would be absent.
1	I will stay there until the time when the others leave.
1	Inspect the site in the field during the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for recreation.
1	He fixed the appointment at 7 p.m., when he would have plenty of time to discuss the matter.
1	Not until about three weeks before her disappearance had he spoken personally to Valerie again, when she told him that she was expecting a baby.
1	This will be the worst quarter since the third quarter of 1987, when steel companies were just on their way up.
1	I went to bed at 10, before when I was reading for an hour.
1	They will come back next summer, by when the new house should be ready.
1	I arrived here an hour ago, since when I have been waiting in vain for someone to serve me.
1	Buyers who aren’t in a hurry will probably prefer to wait until spring, when Ford will introduce its new model.
1	The almanac will be making new friends and enemies on Oct. 27, when an updated version will be released.
2	Anyway, I will leave all further news till I reach my final destination some time this week, when I will transmit all.
1	She shook herself, opened her eyes and put up her hand as if to stifle a yawn, when she stood up, took her bag from the rack and turned towards the door.
1	She wore slacks and a jumper, and went to bed by simply undoing one button, when the whole caboodle fell off on the floor.
1	At 4.30 we three went to Lula’s and wandered round the garden till Acheson turned up, when Clare and he wandered round together and Ma and I kept out of the way.
?	At about seven o’clock she makes some excuse to go out, when she gives the key to Bowman himself, who’s waiting somewhere near the annexe.
1	Then we shall stack wet driftwood against the stove to dry, when it will be burned in its turn and dry other driftwood.
2	It may be opened with a lancet or a needle, when the fluid will run out.
1	From here he may be appointed one of the 67 county court judges, when he will become known as Judge Smith.
?	These memories of when I was in India are gradually fading.
3	She has always been like this, from when she was a child.
2	He would look at the coded words and speculate and then gradually feel speculation being displaced by images of Jennifer and by memories of when they were together.
1	She was reminded of when they had gone back to her room at the Frankfurt hotel and how he had sprung on her behind the door.
2	In the coming months I will no doubt often dream of when I will finally have finished my dissertation.
2	I will save my money for when I need it.
1	I am waiting for when Johnny comes back.
1	He is dreaming of when he will be promoted.
1	When he visited Emma was last week, not last night.
1	When he will do it, it will be tomorrow, not tonight.
1	When he does, it will be tomorrow, not tonight.
1	When all this happened was when Bill was working in London.
2	When I miss him most is when I am alone in my flat in the evening.
1	What upset me most was when they threw a stone at my window.
1	What will upset her most is when they will throw a stone at her window.
1	What will upset her most will be when they throw a stone at her window.
1	I do not know what she did last Sunday, because that was when I went to Scotland.
2	I don’t get off work until eleven o’clock.
3	I don’t get off work until eleven o’clock.
3	That’s when my evening commences.
2	That’s when he wets the bed, when he’s upset about something.
1	Next Tuesday. That will be when I will hand in my paper.
1	Next Wednesday. That is when I hand in my paper.
2	When I am alone in my flat is when I miss him most.
1	The best time to break the news to him will be when he is alone tonight.
1	It was the end of the afternoon when he took the huge key out of his pocket and inserted it into the keyhole.
1	So a happy week passed, and it was a lunar noon, and the dark Earth was fringed with the ‘Wedding ring effect’, when eventually Sally Dreyfus took Harry to see the Lester Perons.
1	A photocopy of the poem was waiting on his desk that day when Johnson returned from lunch.
1	It had been the following morning, however, when things had really started to happen.
1	It had been about a year ago when she had first become aware that her husband was showing unmistakable signs of becoming a semi-drunkard.
1	It was late that night — a little after midnight — when Yves drove into the villa garage in his Lagonda.
3	It is advisable to keep in reserve a small amount for advertising during March/April to catch those people who do not decide where or what they are going to do until later in the year.
1	Then, long after the Boat Inn is closed, the two men carry the body the hundred yards or so along to the one point where no boats are moore.
1	It must have been in the early hours when the two of them get back to London, where the faithless Bert returns to his faithful Emily.
1	It was at ten minutes past ten when I got there.
1	It will be August, not July, when the work will be finished.
2	It’s when the plant is three months old that it’s the best time to prune it.
2	It’s when the prices are cheapest that it is the best time to buy.
2	It seems to be when committees join forces that feathers begin to fly.
1	It’s when he will be three years old that it will be the best time to get him inoculated.
1	My proudest moment was when I married you.
1	The last time I saw a similar congressional hearing was when ‘Tail Gunner Joe’ McCarthy did his work.
2	The time for wars is when the harvest has been got in.
1	The first we knew of the weather’s change was when Mr Ball knocked on our door and told us that a taxi had come to take them to the airport.
1	His second surprise was when she did not attempt to accompany him.
1	Their biggest achievement, however, is when they hear that the Americans are launching a satellite which will broadcast a tape recording of goodwill for seven years.
1	The best time to do it will be when mother is out.
1	Their first knowledge of one another’s identity will be when they meet for the first time under the floorboards of a typical suburban house somewhere in greater London.
2	I don’t like it when you talk about money.
1	They both thought it quite funny when they discovered ‘chocolate’ was the same in both languages.
1	It was a great relief when he left the country.
2	It’s nice when people say that.
2	You know what it’s like when you’re talking about somebody that somebody else doesn’t know.
2	It is a very great help when people do co-operate in such a friendly spirit.
2	When I see a young couple giving up their lives to a lost cause, it gives me the screaming habdabs.
2	When a company of that size and brainpower invests heavily into research, that always spells good news for the company.
2	I hate it when you talk like that.
2	I hate you when you talk like that.
1	It will be no surprise to us when they bungle the job.
2	I think it’ll be a good idea when you are packed off on to confidential duties.
1	What he wrote in his diary was read and copied by John the same day.
1	When I come walking in, waving my flag, he will be annoyed.
1	When stocks stabilized, that was a disappointment.
2	When stocks stabilize, it is a disappointment.
2	When stocks stabilize, it is always a disappointment.
2	When a breakdown occurs this is televised in about 15 to 20 seconds.
1	When they said good morning, it was a matter of recognition.
2	When they say good morning, it is a matter of recognition.
2	When I have the window open it just makes a draught.
1	When you did it yesterday — I think it was six o’clock — was better than this late hour.
1	You remember when you looked at those photographs of Sylvia, Lewis?
1	If the company wants to play mind games, it’s just going to delay when those airplanes get out.
2	I don’t like when people argue, Louie.
1	John will leave when I arrive.
2	John leaves when I arrive.
1	When I arrive, John will already have left.
1	When he went to it one morning, the first thing he noticed was that the shelf on which chocolates and sweets were placed, was bare.
2	When he goes to it in the morning, the first thing he notices is whether the shelf on which chocolates and sweets were placed, is bare.
2	When a person has thoughtlessly or deliberately caused us pain or hardship, it is not always easy to say ‘Just forget it.’
2	I’m at work from eight in the morning sometimes until eleven or twelve at night when you have guests.
1	I met him in 1976 and when I was in the army.
2	I met him when I lived in Eastbourne, when I moved to Oxford, and when I was in the army.
2	I will see him tomorrow and when he comes here himself next week.
1	He left at five o’clock yesterday.
1	He left on Friday, in the afternoon, after lunch, at 3 p.m.
1	He left yesterday when it was five o’clock.
1	He will do it tomorrow when the others have left.
1	The same phone had rung at lunchtime when Mrs Webb had called a man who then lay cold and dead beside the opened fridge.
1	Mr Ty lost control to the government in 1980 when a government bank made emergency loans to the cash-strapped institution.
?	And where were all our handsomely paid Indian Ocean allies last year when our convoys were being attacked?
1	Another statistic will be added today when the government reports the August consumer-price index.
1	Later, when People neared bankruptcy, its chairman, Donald Burr, claimed American’s pricing strategies contributed to People’s demise.
1	It happened shortly before the track was officially opened, when a ballast train was chugging down the line.
1	Mr Dines was relatively conservative then, when he thought gold would rise only as high as $400 an ounce.
1	He’s far more bullish now and thinks it could rise to a record level.
1	I will do it tonight, when it is dark.
?	I will do it during the night, when it is dark.
2	I do it during the night, when it is dark.
1	The next time around, when we have the next iteration of these programs, it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it.
2	In the future, when we have another iteration of these programs, it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it.
?	How curious England will be in fifty years’ time, when every fair-sized town has a university.
1	Tomorrow, or the day after, when life is really settled again, I shall go to various ‘experts and authorities’ e.g. the Nigerian Embassy, and find full details.
1	But tomorrow morning, when you bring in my morning coffee, I may think differently.
?	In the remote future, when space-travel has become as easy as train travel is now, Lunik may be recovered.
1	Then, when I was leaving, he asked me to marry him.
1	And then, when he’s sweeping the roads, let him come crawling back to us with his tail between his legs.
1	And in any case the story takes place a bit earlier than that, when the guerrilla war in the highlands had not yet made internal travel a gamble with destiny.
1	Her parents died in an accident when she was young, in 1977.
?	Her parents saw many die in an accident when she was young, in 1977.
1	He managed to say yes after a moment, when power of speech returned.
1	Bonds received a bigger boost later in the day when stock prices moved broadly lower.
1	The 13-nation oil cartel will play an even greater role in the late 1990s when non-OPEC production declines.
2	The 13-nation oil cartel usually plays an even greater role when non-OPEC production declines.
1	In a day or two when I have located things like post offices and cities I will send on my diary.
1	An indication of Akzo’s success in reshaping itself will come Thursday when it reports third-quarter results.
2	A fresh indication of Akzo’s success in reshaping itself comes each time it reports third-quarter results.
1	And that should be much less of a problem next year when the comparisons become easier.
1	Their game lasted till nearly ten o’clock when Señora Gonzalez commanded everybody inside for dinner.
1	Rob did not have a chance to be alone with Gaby until after three o’clock when most of the others had gone to their rooms to rest.
2	They will continue begging for money until someone chases them.
1	They will continue begging for money until tomorrow, when someone will chase them.
2	Sometimes when the whole top was driven sideways by a violent gust, we could see the grey clouds moving fast above.
1	Then, when the whole top was driven sideways by a violent gust, we could finally see the grey clouds moving fast above.
1	It was when she became really cruel that I stopped adoring her.
?	It’s only when that attitude changes that things will turn around.
2	We would have to be on our guard when there were guests in the house.
1	The last meeting was when we had just left for our holidays.
1	The next meeting will be when we have just left for our holidays.
2	Under the proposal, a President would have a chance twice each year to return a package of ‘rescissions’ to the Hill—once when he proposes his budget and again after Congress disposes.
1	If he didn’t arrive on time, it was because his train was late.
2	When he spoke it was with an eloquent style.
1	When I moved, it was a bit too late.
1	When they arrive, it will certainly not be in a hurry.
2	When they arrive, it is certainly never in a hurry.
1	When his ailing wife and daughter Elizabeth went there in 1740, they went alone.
?	Well, when I say ‘want’ I mean ‘love’ of course.
2	When I say ‘want’ I mean ‘love’ of course.
1	When we say, then, that today, in our situation, the demand for demythologization must be accepted without condition, we are simply saying that at least this much of the liberal tradition is an enduring achievement.
1	When, at 10.25 p.m., she politely, but firmly, called for last drinks, it was with some relief.
1	It was like a pebble thrown into a quiet, still pool when Daniel Elliot met the doctor’s daughters.
1	Perhaps it had only been a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said it.
1	I told him about her adoption when she was a child.
1	He could imagine everyone’s surprise when Nelly began to change.
1	She remembers the dry, hot painfulness of her eyes when she first lost her sight.
1	A heart attack when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing.
3	She performed the 10-hour daily practicing with rigor.
3	She performs the 10-hour daily practicing with rigor.
1	The road’s engineers look for further improvement when the turnpike is extended into Boston.
1	We will need support for the London to Holy Loch Polaris protest marchers when they arrive here after completing their 14-mile stint from Daventry tomorrow.
1	Bernard felt sure they would all be reminded of that incident when a disgruntled undergraduate had pissed all over Felix’s carpet two years ago.
?	He is lame because of an accident when he was fourteen.
1	Researchers couldn’t estimate the cost of the drug when it reaches the market.
2	Since the Industrial Revolution, when factories emerged, this classical pattern has been followed.
1	She remembered the war, when he had his hand on the door of his home when the bomb fell, taking with it all he held dear.
1	The students shall state what age they were when they started these practices.
1	My next tournament, when I’m playing the champion, will surely be one I’ll never forget.
1	She hurt herself when she was a pupil at the Roger Bacon School.
1	He began at once to tell her of his plans for the flat when she came to live with them.
1	She recounts her feelings last month, when she was asked to speak to students at Smith College.
1	His hair, when he was a child, had been white-blond.
1	One of GE’s goals when it bought 80% of Kidder in 1986 was to take advantage of ‘syngeries’.
1	You see, I had to be there for when he came back.
2	All these fires are lit to warm the house for when you get there.
1	The committee is formulating Hong Kong’s constitution for when it reverts to Chinese control in 1997.
2	She had gradually accumulated them for when she went on holiday.
2	It gives them some cash in the back pocket for when they want to do something.
?	So far this year — apart from when I have judged at Ch shows — I have not come across more than a dozen Bull Terriers.
1	Except for when he said you must have gone to the pub the previous evening.
1	He was here from when the party started until about midnight.
2	He was usually here from when the party started until about midnight.
1	When the smoke cleared, six people were dead.
1	This was called Ellen Avenue when I first went there.
2	His eyes appeared enormous when one looked back at him.
2	When the stage is lighted we are in the Cato Street Loft.
2	When you travel to Washington, Boston, Chicago or New York, the same problems exist.
2	When you leave the Thames, there is scanty evidence.
2	When you get past there, you’re in what we call the foyer.
2	Not when you get to know him, I suppose.
1	And when he came to examine the scene, there was a certain staginess to it.
2	When you look at the economics, Traub needs a Japanese and a European partner to make it work.
2	When you consider that the Cananea mine in Mexico is still out and there still are other mine production problems around the world, there remains a strong bullish element in this market.
2	White people, it seemed, when one looked into it, did much the same things as Africans.
2	Beryl’s life recently — the whole thing — was very strange when you think of it.
?	When you came to think of it, what was there to stop her turning up to claim the money?
2	The Liberal achievement is all the more remarkable when one remembers the disadvantages under which the Liberal candidates worked.
2	Henry Moore’s stylisation is entirely consistent when one recognises that.
2	When one considers the impositions, I’m not surprised you failed.
2	Fantastic as the theory is, it becomes more so when we learn that it was acceptable to Diluvialists in England and abroad for many years.
2	Communist techniques, when their background is studied, remain police methods.
2	Each legislator, after all, is only one out of 535 when it comes to national policy making.
2	That seems especially true when it comes to what people eat and drink.
2	Jim’s a most reliable chap when it comes to picking up a small tip.
1	The girl is only a kid when all’s said and done, and from up-country too.
?	But it is when we come to the second distinction, that made among the sheep or within the pale, that my system would differ most sharply from the established one.
?	But it is when we come to the second distinction, that my system would differ most sharply from the established one.
2	Jim will prove a most reliable chap when it comes to picking up a small tip.
1	The limits to legal absurdity stretched another notch this week when the Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal from a case.
1	In the same sentence he contradicts himself when he reports that the government still retains 40% of the total equity of the airline.
2	Mr Angell is incorrect when he states that.
?	In my view, Justice Louis Brandeis was a ‘true friend of freedom’ when he wrote this discourse.
2	When you suggest otherwise, you leave the realm of reporting and enter the orbit of speculation.
1	It occurred when a car in which she was travelling overturned at Hyde Park Corner.
1	Just last week it suffered another major setback when British Airways PLC, the largest equity investor in the labor-management bid, withdrew its support.
1	She began to walk at the age of twelve months when she un-expectedly slipped down from her mother’s lap.
1	But no doubt Lady Diplock recalls an accident in 1957 when her husband’s horse fell and he was badly thrown.
1	The climax is ‘The lanimers’, when an enormous fancy-dress parade of children goes through the town.
1	Again the goalie saved the Albion bacon when he fisted over a whizzer from Dennis Gillespie.
1	The Twins tied the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high chopper to third base.
?	Mr Dorfman provides confirming evidence of this phenomenon when he reports that.
1	Britain helped American companies in April when it lowered its tax on imported spirits.
2	Britain helps American companies when it lowers its tax on imported spirits.
1	Fujisankei took the plunge into the music business last week when it bought a stake in Virgin Music Group.
1	The Arizona utility gained notoriety over the summer when its chairman resigned under pressure.
1	I was glad when he asked me to be his wife.
1	Octobers troubles began when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank.
1	One of its buildings sustained severe damage when it was knocked off its foundation.
2	Buildings sustain severe damage when they are knocked off their foundation.
?	Mr Morris will be mistaken when he claims that.
1	Mr Morris will be mistaken when he will claim that.
1	The building will sustain severe damage when it is knocked off its foundations.
1	He failed to kill an enemy when he had a golden opportunity.
1	I put down two tins of marmalade when I should have put two tins of jam.
1	Let’s all think about what we might be doing instead of sitting here when the rest have all gone home.
?	And you wanted no part of me when I had so much to give.
2	Is there a man who could stand aside when this fair creature is in trouble?
?	How could they be otherwise, when his beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-quarter-hour intervals.
3	His beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-quarter-hour intervals, regular as clockwork.
2	We live in a topsy-turvy world when good simple people like Alice Barker are pushed into the headlines.
1	He did it when the warder was not paying any attention to him.
1	He was very upset when the police came to arrest his son.
1	Everybody laughed when John was trying to climb a palm tree.
1	He left when it was five o’clock.
1	It was five o’clock when he left.
2	It is usually five o’clock when he leaves.
1	The riots stopped when the police intervened.
?	The police intervened when the riots stopped.
1	Lea remembered that Mort Paladrey had put an end to that, when he’d interrupted one cheerfully scandalous anecdote.
1	Mort Paladrey had put an end to that, when he’d interrupted one cheerfully scandalous anecdote.
2	You know I’m compliance itself — when I’m not thwarted.
2	You know I’m compliance itself, when I’m not thwarted.
2	There’s never a dull moment in a mealtime when you use Heinz Pickles.
1	Next time I will be careful not to promise to take her with me when I have only one ticket.
1	They will have to surrender when they have run out of ammunition.
2	They have to surrender when they run out of ammunition.
1	I was sitting quietly in the kitchen when suddenly a stranger entered the room.
1	She had just dried the last plate and was setting clean coffee cups on a tray, when a dark-haired, spectacled young man put his head through the kitchen window.
1	Closing the garage doors behind her, she was about to turn when she felt the cold muzzle of a gun against her back.
1	I had hardly obtained a pair of spectacles when I ceased to need them.
1	He predicted that one day we would be sitting quietly in our sitting-room when suddenly there would be an explosion.
?	The warders will hardly have turned their backs when the prisoners will already have started fighting.
1	We will be sitting quietly in the drawing-room when suddenly Bill will come in.
2	This is what usually happens in cases when the divorced woman has no income of her own.
2	This is what happens in cases when the divorced woman has no income of her own.
1	That was one of the worst cases when our legal system proved deficient.
2	I hate it when our legal system proves deficient.
2	You can’t ask one carrier to underwrite on social grounds when that might destroy it in the marketplace.
2	When — as usually happens — the husband dies first, the widow often stays on her own.
2	When the husband dies first, the widow stays on her own.
2	Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script.
2	Entries are summarized only when by doing so the amount of information retained in the dictionary is reduced and the time required for dictionary operations is decreased.
2	Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right.
2	There are many stone circles — we call them standing stones even when they are recumbent.
2	You have much more flexibility when you’re a private company.
2	Children are orphans when they have no parents.
2	When a person meets God, he is forgiven.
2	A man is little use when his wife is a widow.
1	Many a widow attempted to seduce him during that gathering.
2	When a novel is given over entirely to the Romantic experience it ceases to be a novel.
2	Biography becomes trivial when its sole object is to introduce us into the intimacy of the great.
2	When pornography is produced by writers or artists of talent it is usually dubbed ‘ erotica ’
2	When pornography is produced by writers or artists of talent it is then dubbed ‘ erotica ’
2	He had an almost vicious contempt for military ‘bumpkins’ when they could not understand that large political objects may often best be accomplished by employing a small military force.
2	The only problem is when people do not want to co-operate.
2	Exceptions are when a much younger person is introduced to an older one, or where the distinction of rank is obvious.
2	Exceptions are when a much younger person is introduced to an older one, or when the distinction of rank is obvious.
2	What the hell do I care for the dead knowledge of evil when I’m blessed with a sister as sweet as this?
2	Especially when we’re sending one of our best men on a fool’s errand.
1	It was in vain to have any reserve when I had said so much.
?	Mollie, there’s no sense in stalling when we both know our own minds.
1	By giving him one more, it could upset his whole balance — especially when he shouldn’t have had them in the first place.
1	It wasn’t for me to argue when he said he was as good as the next man.
1	Why shouldn’t I tell him the truth when he will hear it from Tom anyhow?
1	We shouldn’t be proud of ourselves when we’re going to leave him in the lurch.
?	But how can I demonstrate a machine when it doesn’t work properly?
2	But how can one demonstrate a machine when it doesn’t work properly?
1	But how will I be able demonstrate a machine when it doesn’t work properly?
2	When a David Baltimore — or the next target — decides it is better to stand up to these forces, his fellow scientists would do well to recognize what is fundamentally at stake.
2	It’s hard to believe in Pastor Manders when you knew him first as a somewhat below average window cleaner.
2	You can’t expect me to prepare a meal when you won’t come.
1	It is one of the rare instances when so-called money market preferred has been sold with voting rights.
2	It’s like when you have five kids and someone asks which one is your favorite.
2	She still can make the inspired, ironic, off-beat observation now and then, as when she offers her off-center interpretation of the ‘Star-Spangled Banner’.
?	How is a travel agent going to sell a holiday when he cannot guarantee a return flight?
?	How can you know about the needs of people’s bodies when you think all flesh is evil?
2	How does one know what it is one believes when it’s so difficult to know what it is one knows?
1	Why do you maintain the House-passed capital-gains plan is a ‘temporary’ reduction when it is not?
2	Why do you always maintain it is done when it is not?
2	People think he’s being hostile when he’s not really.
1	Why do you remember now what I said then, when I can’t remember myself?
1	The reports, for example, put total sales at less than $1 million when they actually exceeded $29 million.
?	Why did these yokels still wear boots, anyway, when most had scarcely sat a horse in years?
1	Why should she have taken her own life, when she had so much to look forward to?
1	I won’t waste my time trying to raise £100,000 for the Charity Fund when such a large sum of money will no doubt never be found.
1	The report will put the cost at less than £150,000, when it will actually exceed £250,000.
2	He said he would not choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road.
2	When they do is when they have more than three children.
2	When people have no children, it is very likely because they cannot have any.
1	I will leave whenever you want me to.
1	Apparently, his father was there in 1917 or whenever it was.
1	That was the time when John was away.
1	It happened when John was away.
1	The accident happened when mother was away.
2	The accidents happen when mothers are away.
1	And exports could be even more critical in 1990, when domestic sales are expected to be sluggish.
1	Another 250 Libyans were already in Italy to stage a day of mourning.
1	But Mr Kissinger will be in China in November, when he plans to hold private meetings with Chinese officials.
2	Mr Kissinger travels to China when he plans to hold private meetings with Chinese officials.
2	She’s always asking me for what I can’t give her!
2	All these years he’s made me do things that I didn’t want to do.
2	He sometimes disturbs me when I am working.
1	When he gets closer, he sees that it is Vic Wilcox and he blushes, naturally.
2	When he gets closer, he sees a bit better than usual.
1	Ford reacts when GM, the world’s largest auto maker, firms up its proposed deal with Jaguar.
2	Many birds move to lower altitudes or wet open lowlands in winter.
2	Their four to six speckled grey-ish white eggs hatch in about two weeks.
1	Their four to six speckled grey-ish white eggs will hatch in about two weeks.
2	The water pipit has a complete moult between July and September.
2	Within this building or these premises, anyone can store goods.
2	Under such a complex circumstances, many importers and exporters try to use automation.
2	It was not always possible for the importer to find sureties.
1	The company was founded in 1982 by two ex-Sinclair Research staffers.
1	Under head coach Joe Hollis, the team compiled a record of 2 wins and 9 losses.
?	When you play Dancing on the Storm, you will be amazed how many songs you know.
1	Between April and September 1813, Comet was chartered by the U.S. Navy for reconnaissance in the Chesapeake Bay area.
1	Somewhere between April and September 1813, Comet was chartered by the U.S. Navy for reconnaissance in the Chesapeake Bay area.
2	However, when both are knocked out simultaneously in the first round, one of them will win the second round.
2	In the 19th century, during the Summer, the gentry of Dublin would travel out to Bray and Enniskerry with their entourages and have picnics on the banks of the River Dargle.
2	On Summer evenings fiddlers, flautists and melodeon-players played dance music until midnight.
1	On this Summer evening fiddler, flautists and melodeon-players played dance music until midnight.
2	Transtar used this as a sales tool when marketing their service to prospective affiliates.
?	Competent authorities shall publish the applicable percentages in the ranges specified in paragraph 5.
2	As soon as it adopts a delegated act , the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
1	As soon as the delegated act is adopted , the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
2	When authorised to apply national measures in accordance with this Article , the authorities determined in accordance with paragraph 1 shall provide relevant competent authorities or designated authorities in other Member States with all relevant information.
2	Institutions shall report their liquidity inflows.
3	EBA shall report to the Commission annually on measures taken by the competent authorities in order to ensure the compliance with the requirements of Titles II and III by institutions.
2	Institutions shall report any significant findings to their competent authority.
3	The results of the stress testing under the programme shall be reported regularly , at least on a quarterly basis , to senior management.
2	If an institution ceases to comply with the requirements laid down in this Section , it shall notify the competent authority.
2	Where institutions make use of this derogation , they shall every six months inform their competent authorities of the positions concerned.
3	Where institutions make use of this derogation , they shall every six months inform their competent authorities of the positions concerned.
3	Institutions shall disclose the following information , including regular , at least annual updates , regarding governance arrangements :
3	It shall provide for at least monthly exposure stress testing of principal market risk factors.
1	EBA shall , after consulting ESMA and the ECB , by 31 December 2013 , report to the Commission on appropriate uniform definitions of high and of extremely high liquidity and credit quality of transferable assets for the purposes of Article 416 and appropriate haircuts for assets that would qualify as liquid assets for the purposes of Article 416 , with the exception of assets referred to in points ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) of Article 416(1 ).
1	For the purposes of paragraph 1 , EBA shall report to the Commission by 31 October 2016 on at least the following :
1	The Commission shall by 1 January 2017 submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on whether it is appropriate to extend the application of the Basel I floor beyond 31 December 2017 to ensure that there is a backstop to internal models , taking into account international developments and internationally agreed standards . That report shall be accompanied by a legislative proposal if appropriate.
3	Institutions shall report to competent authorities every three months on the total amount of exposures to SMEs calculated in accordance with paragraph 2.
1	The Commission shall by 2 January 2017 , report on the impact of the own funds requirements laid down in this Regulation on lending to SMEs and natural persons.
1	On the basis of the report referred to in paragraph 2 , the Commission may submit proposals for amendments to this Regulation.
2	For the purposes of Article 308 of Regulation ( EU ) No 575/2013 , a CCP shall report the following information to those of its clearing members which are institutions.
1	By 30 September 2014, ESMA should draft a report on the impact of the application of additional requirements by Member States.
3	The competent authorities shall regularly, and at least annually, inform the college of the results of the review and evaluation as referred to in paragraph 1, including any remedial action taken or penalty imposed.
3	The competent authorities shall regularly, and at least quarterly, inform the college of the results of the review and evaluation as referred to in paragraph 1, including any remedial action taken or penalty imposed.
3	The competent authorities shall regularly, and at least monthly, inform the college of the results of the review and evaluation as referred to in paragraph 1, including any remedial action taken or penalty imposed.
3	For the purposes of the first subparagraph, ESMA shall, at least annually:
3	For the purposes of the first subparagraph, ESMA shall, at least quarterly:
3	Those procedures shall be reviewed annually.
1	Within six months of receiving notification in accordance with paragraph 1 or accomplishing a procedure for recognition set out in Article 25, ESMA shall, after conducting a public consultation and after consulting the ESRB and, where appropriate, the competent authorities of third countries, develop and submit to the Commission for endorsement draft regulatory technical standards specifying the following:
2	Counterparties shall keep a record of any derivative contract they have concluded and any modification for at least five years following the termination of the contract.
2	After consulting the ESRB and other relevant authorities, ESMA shall periodically review the thresholds and, where necessary, propose regulatory technical standards to amend them.
3	After consulting the ESRB and other relevant authorities, ESMA shall periodically review the thresholds and, where necessary, propose regulatory technical standards to amend them.
2	ESMA shall disclose to the public every fine and periodic penalty payment that has been imposed pursuant to Articles 65 and 66.
3	ESMA shall conduct a peer review of the entities included on the list every year in accordance with Article 30 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
2	if the infringement has been committed repeatedly, for every time it has been repeated, an additional coefficient of 1,1 shall apply;
3	In addition, an institution shall review its estimates of alpha on at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when the composition of the portfolio varies over time. 
3	The results of that stress testing shall be reviewed regularly and at least quarterly by senior management.
3	The group shall report collateral management information on a regular basis, but at least quarterly, to the executive officers.
3	The results of the stress testing under the programme shall be reported regularly, at least on a quarterly basis.
3	The data shall be updated at least quarterly, and more frequently if necessary to reflect market conditions.
3	The institution shall, however, quarterly report to the competent authority of the home Member State the total sum of its weighted net long and net short positions, broken down by types of underlying assets.
3	It shall be calculated every six months in respect of the corresponding preceding period.
2	Where institutions make use of this derogation, they shall every six months inform their competent authorities of the positions concerned and furnish evidence that they can close out at mid-market.
3	Where institutions make use of this derogation, they shall every six months inform their competent authorities of the positions concerned and furnish evidence that they can close out at mid-market.
3	Institutions monitor the value of the property on a frequent basis and at a minimum once every year for commercial immovable property and once every three years for residential real estate.
3	For loans exceeding EUR 3 million or 5 % of the own funds of an institution, the property valuation shall be reviewed by such valuer at least every three years.
3	the data set used in the calculation shall be updated every three months.
2	An institution may use a measure of the distribution calculated by the model that is more conservative than α multiplied by Effective EPE as calculated in accordance with the equation in paragraph 4 for every counterparty.
2	Where an institution that is a client accesses the services of a CCP through indirect clearing arrangements, in accordance with Article 4(3) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, that institution may apply the treatment set out in paragraph 2 or 3 only where the conditions in each paragraph are met at every level of the chain of intermediaries.
3	EBA shall conduct a review by 1 January 2015 and every two years thereafter.
2	An institution shall report the following information about every large exposure to the competent authorities:
2	Institutions may exclude from the calculation of outflows certain clearly circumscribed categories of retail deposits as long as in each and every instance the institution rigorously applies the following for the whole category of those deposits.
2	Institutions shall apply an additional risk weight in accordance with Article 407 when applying Article 92 on a consolidated or sub-consolidated basis.
2	They are automatically and mandatorily replaced without delay with a tax credit in the event that the institution reports a loss when the annual financial statements of the institution are formally approved.
2	a trigger event occurs when the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of the institution referred to in point (a) of Article 92(1) falls below either of the following:
2	When a trigger event occurs institutions shall do the following:
2	Institutions shall mark their positions to market whenever possible, including when applying trading book capital treatment.
2	By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, when an institution hedges a non-trading book credit risk exposure or counterparty risk exposure using a credit derivative booked in its trading book using an internal hedge, the non-trading book exposure or counterparty risk exposure shall not be deemed to be hedged for the purposes of calculating risk weighted exposure amounts.
2	where applicable when an institution included in the consolidation exclusively applies the IRB Approach, general credit risk adjustments of this institution shall be assigned to the treatment set out in paragraph 2;
2	When the directors get bored, a meeting should occur every six weeks.
2	When the directors get bored, a meeting should occur every six weeks.
3	When the directors get bored, a meeting should occur every six weeks.
2	Where the directors get bored, a meeting should occur every six weeks.
2	Where the directors get bored, a meeting should occur every six weeks.
3	Where the directors get bored, a meeting should occur every six weeks.
2	When an institution is using the Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method under Article 223, the exposure value of securities or commodities sold, posted or lent under a repurchase transaction or under a securities or commodities lending or borrowing transaction, and margin lending transactions shall be increased by the volatility adjustment appropriate to such securities or commodities as prescribed in Articles 223 to 225.
2	When the competent authorities of a third country which apply supervisory and regulatory arrangements at least equivalent to those applied in the Union assign a risk weight which is lower than that indicated in paragraphs 1 to 2 to exposures to their central government and central bank denominated and funded in the domestic currency, institutions may risk weight such exposures in the same manner.
2	When competent authorities set a higher risk weight or stricter criteria, institutions shall have a 6-month transitional period to apply the new risk weight.
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 31 December 2014.
2	For those other sources, institutions shall determine maximum loan-to-income ratios as part of their lending policy and obtain suitable evidence of the relevant income when granting the loan.
?	There shall be no mortgage liens on the residential property when the loan is granted.
2	When an exposure arises through an institution's participation in a loan that has been extended by a multilateral development bank whose preferred creditor status is recognised in the market, the credit assessment on the obligors' domestic currency item may be used for risk weighting purposes.
2	The competent authority shall grant permission pursuant to Article 143 for an institution to use the IRB Approach, including to use own estimates of LGD and conversion factors, only if the competent authority is satisfied that requirements laid down in this Chapter are met, in particular those laid down in Section 6, and that the systems of the institution for the management and rating of credit risk exposures are sound and implemented with integrity and, in particular, that the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the competent authority that the following standards are met:
3	The competent authority shall annually grant permission pursuant to Article 143 for an institution to use the IRB Approach, including to use own estimates of LGD and conversion factors, only if the competent authority is satisfied that requirements laid down in this Chapter are met, in particular those laid down in Section 6, and that the systems of the institution for the management and rating of credit risk exposures are sound and implemented with integrity and, in particular, that the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the competent authority that the following standards are met:
2	The competent authority which makes use of this paragraph shall inform the competent authorities of all other Member States .
1	By 1 January 2014 the Commission shall report to the European Parliament and the Council on any legal obstacles which are capable of rendering impossible the application of point ( c ) of the first subparagraph and is invited to make a legislative proposal , if appropriate , by 31 December 2015 on which of those obstacles should be removed .
2	When a competent authority exercises the discretion laid down in paragraph 1 , it shall on a regular basis and not less than once a year inform the competent authorities of all the other Member States of the use made of paragraph 1 and of the circumstances and arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 .
3	When a competent authority exercises the discretion laid down in paragraph 1 , it shall on a regular basis and not less than once a year inform the competent authorities of all the other Member States of the use made of paragraph 1 and of the circumstances and arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 .
2	When the subsidiary is in a third country , the competent authorities shall provide the same information to the competent authorities of that third country as well .
2	Significant subsidiaries of EU parent institutions and those subsidiaries which are of material significance for their local market shall disclose the information specified in Articles 437 , 438 , 440 , 442 , 450 , 451 and 453 , on an individual or sub - consolidated basis .
2	Significant subsidiaries of EU parent financial holding companies or EU parent mixed holding companies and those subsidiaries which are of material significance for their local market shall disclose the information specified in Articles 437 , 438 , 440 , 442 , 450 , 451 and 453 on an individual or sub - consolidated basis .
2	Obligations resulting from Part Five concerning subsidiaries , not themselves subject to this Regulation , shall not apply if the EU parent institution or institutions controlled by an EU parent financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial holding company , can demonstrate to the competent authorities that the application of Part Five is unlawful under the laws of the third country when the subsidiary is established .
2	When the criteria in the first subparagraph are met , each EU investment firm shall maintain systems to monitor and control the sources of capital and funding of all financial holding companies , investment firms , financial institutions , asset management companies and ancillary services undertakings within the group .
3	When the criteria in the first subparagraph are met , each EU investment firm shall maintain systems to monitor and control the sources of capital and funding of all financial holding companies , investment firms , financial institutions , asset management companies and ancillary services undertakings within the group .
2	Investment firms in a group which has been granted the waiver provided for in Article 15 shall notify the competent authorities of the risks which could undermine their financial positions , including those associated with the composition and sources of their own funds , internal capital and funding .
2	The institutions that must comply with the requirements referred to in Section 1 on the basis of their consolidated situation shall carry out a full consolidation of all institutions and financial institutions that are its subsidiaries or , when relevant , the subsidiaries of the same parent financial holding company or mixed parent financial holding company . Paragraphs 2 to 8 of this Article shall not apply when Part Six applies on the basis of an institution 's consolidated situation .
1	EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify conditions according to which consolidation shall be carried out in the cases referred to in paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article .
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 31 December 2016 .
2	Applications shall be submitted only to the consolidating supervisor .
2	This joint decision shall be set out in a document containing the fully reasoned decision which shall be provided to the applicant by the competent authority referred to in paragraph 1 .
2	The decision shall be provided to the EU parent institution , the EU parent financial holding company or to the EU parent mixed financial holding company and the other competent authorities by the consolidating supervisor .
2	The decision shall be provided to the consolidating supervisor that informs the EU parent institution , the EU parent financial holding company or the EU parent mixed financial holding company .
1	EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 31 December 2014 .
2	The joint decision shall be set out in a document containing the fully reasoned decision which shall be submitted to the parent institution of the liquidity subgroup by the consolidating supervisor .
2	A verification of the interim or year - end profits of the institution shall provide an adequate level of assurance that those profits have been evaluated in accordance with the principles set out in the applicable accounting framework .
2	On the basis of information from each competent authority , EBA shall establish , maintain and publish a list of all the forms of capital instruments in each Member State that qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments .
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 1 February 2015 .
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 30 September 2013 .
3	The consolidated balance sheet or the extended aggregated calculation shall be reported to the competent authorities no less frequently than the frequency laid down in Article 99
2	the institutions included in an institutional protection scheme meet together on a consolidated or extended aggregated basis the requirements laid down in Article 92 and carry out reporting of compliance with those requirements in accordance with Article 99 .
2	When an institution applies methods 1 or 2 of Annex I to Directive 2002/87/EC , the institution shall disclose the supplementary own funds requirement and capital adequacy ratio of the financial conglomerate as calculated in accordance with Article 6 of and Annex I to that Directive .
1	EBA , EIOPA and ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 1 February 2015 .
2	When a trigger event occurs institutions shall immediately inform the competent authorities .
2	When a trigger event occurs institutions shall inform the holders of the Additional Tier 1 instruments .
3	The institution shall maintain at all times the necessary prior authorisation to issue the Common Equity Tier 1 instruments into which such Additional Tier 1 instruments would convert upon occurrence of a trigger event .
2	Institutions shall report and disclose the broad market indices on which their capital instruments rely .
3   EBA shall monitor the quality of own funds instruments issued by institutions across the Union .
3	EBA shall monitor the quality of own funds instruments issued by institutions across the Union and shall notify the Commission immediately when there is significant evidence of those instruments not meeting the criteria set out in Article 28 or , when applicable , Article 29 .
2	EBA shall monitor the quality of own funds instruments issued by institutions across the Union and shall notify the Commission immediately when there is significant evidence of those instruments not meeting the criteria set out in Article 28 or , when applicable , Article 29 .
2	EBA shall notify the Commission immediately when there is significant evidence of those instruments not meeting the criteria set out in Article 28 or , when applicable , Article 29 .
2	EBA shall provide technical advice to the Commission on any significant changes it considers to be required to the definition of own funds as a result of any of the following
1	EBA shall provide technical advice to the Commission by 1 January 2014 on possible treatments of unrealised gains measured at fair value other than including them in Common Equity Tier 1 without adjustment .
?	Competent authorities shall publish their choice of ( a ) or ( b ) .
1	For the purposes of point ( b ) of paragraph 1 , EBA shall publish guidelines specifying the following concepts
2	When an institution fails to meet the condition in point ( b ) of paragraph 1 it shall immediately notify the competent authority .
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 1 March 2014 .
3	Reporting by institutions to the competent authorities on the obligations laid down in Article 92 shall be carried out at least on a semi - annual basis .
2	Institutions subject to Article 4 of Regulation ( EC ) No 1606/2002 and credit institutions other than those referred to in Article 4 of that Regulation that prepare their consolidated accounts in conformity with the international accounting standards adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 6(2 ) of that Regulation , shall also report financial information .
2	Competent authorities may require those credit institutions applying international accounting standards as applicable under Regulation ( EC ) No 1606/2002 for the reporting of own funds on a consolidated basis pursuant to Article 24(2 ) of this Regulation to also report financial information as laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article .
2	The financial information referred to in paragraph 2 and in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 shall be reported to the extent this is necessary to obtain a comprehensive view of the risk profile of an institution 's activities and a view on the systemic risks posed by institutions to the financial sector or the real economy in accordance with Regulation ( EU ) No 1093/2010 .
2	When a competent authority considers information not covered by the implementing technical standards referred to in paragraph 5 to be necessary for the purposes set out in paragraph 4 , it shall notify EBA and the ESRB about the additional information it deems necessary to include in the implementing technical standards referred to in paragraph 5 .
2	Institutions shall report to the competent authorities the level , at least in aggregate terms , of their repurchase agreements , securities lending and all forms of encumbrance of assets .
3	Institutions shall report on a semi - annual basis the following data
2	The data referred to in paragraph 1 shall be reported to the competent authority of the home Member State of the relevant institution .
2	When an institution has a branch in another Member State , the data relating to that branch shall also be reported to the competent authorities of the host Member State .
3	The competent authorities shall publish annually on an aggregated basis the data specified in points ( a ) to ( f ) of paragraph 1 , together with historical data , when available .
2	A competent authority shall , upon the request of another competent authority in a Member State or EBA provide to that competent authority or EBA more detailed information on the condition of the residential or commercial immovable property markets in that Member State .
3	Institutions shall establish and maintain systems and controls to manage their trading book in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 .
3	The institution shall maintain a clearly documented trading strategy for the position / instrument or portfolios , approved by senior management , which shall include the expected holding period .
3	The institution shall maintain clearly defined policies and procedures for the active management of positions entered into on a trading desk .
3	Institutions shall maintain clearly defined policies and procedures for determining which position to include in the trading book for the purposes of calculating their capital requirements , in accordance with the requirements set out in Article 102 and the definition of trading book in accordance with point ( 86 ) of Article 4(1 ) , taking into account the institution 's risk management capabilities and practices .
2	These policies and procedures shall at least address the activities the institution considers to be trading and as constituting part of the trading book for own funds requirement purposes .
3	These policies and procedures shall at least address the activities the institution considers to be trading and as constituting part of the trading book for own funds requirement purposes .
2	These policies and procedures shall at least address the extent to which a position can be marked - to - market daily by reference to an active , liquid two - way market .
3	These policies and procedures shall at least address the extent to which a position can be marked - to - market daily by reference to an active , liquid two - way market .
3	Institutions shall establish and maintain systems and controls sufficient to provide prudent and reliable valuation estimates .
2	When institutions make use of this derogation , they shall every six months inform their competent authorities of the positions concerned .
3	When institutions make use of this derogation , they shall every six months inform their competent authorities of the positions concerned .
3	Institutions shall source market inputs , when possible , in line with market prices , and shall assess the appropriateness of the market inputs of the particular position being valued and the parameters of the model on a frequent basis .
3	Institutions shall maintain formal change control procedures and shall hold a secure copy of the model and use it periodically to check valuations .
3	Institutions ' models shall be subject to periodic review to determine the accuracy of their performance , which shall include assessing the continued appropriateness of assumptions , analysis of profit and loss versus risk factors , and comparison of actual close out values to model outputs .
3	It shall be carefully monitored .
3	Those systems shall suitably monitor defaulted exposures in accordance with Article 178 ( 1 ) .
?	EBA shall publish the risk weights and criteria that the competent authorities set for exposures referred to in Articles 125 , 126 and 199 .
3	Based on the data collected under Article 101 , and any other relevant indicators , the competent authorities shall periodically , and at least annually , assess whether the risk - weight of 35 % for exposures secured by mortgages on residential property referred to in Article 125 and the risk weight of 50 % for exposures secured on commercial immovable property referred to in Article 126 located in their territory are appropriately based on the loss experience of exposures secured by immovable property .
1	EBA shall publish the list of ECAIs in accordance with Article 2(4 ) and Article 18(3 ) of Regulation ( EC ) No 1060/2009 on its website .
1	EBA , EIOPA and ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 1 July 2014
2	EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall submit revised draft implementing technical standards when necessary .
3	An institution which decides to use the credit assessments produced by an ECAI shall use them in a continuous and consistent way over time .
2	Institutions shall notify the competent authorities of all changes to rating systems and internal models approaches to equity exposures .
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 31 December 2013 .
2	An institution applying for the use of own estimates of LGDs and conversion factors shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the competent authorities that it has been estimating and employing own estimates of LGDs and conversion factors in a manner that was broadly consistent with the requirements for use of own estimates of those parameters set out in Section 6 for at least three years before qualification to use own estimates of LGDs and conversion factors .
2	Institutions shall carry out implementation of the IRB Approach according to conditions determined by the competent authorities .
1	EBA shall publish guidelines on the application of point ( d ) of paragraph 1 in 2018 .
1	EBA shall publish guidelines on the application of point ( d ) of paragraph 1 in 2018 , recommending limits in terms of a percentage of total balance sheet and/or risk weighted assets to be calculated in accordance with the Standardised Approach .
2	For exposures belonging to the exposure classes referred to in points ( a ) to ( d ) of Article 147(2 ) , institutions shall provide their own estimates of PDs in accordance with Article 143 and Section 6 .
1	EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 30 June 2014 .
2	Competent authorities shall review the relative volatility of loss rates across the qualifying revolving retail sub - portfolios , as well the aggregate qualifying revolving retail portfolio , and shall share information on the typical characteristics of qualifying revolving retail loss rates across Member States .
3	Based on the data collected under Article 101 and taking into account forward - looking property market developments and any other relevant indicators , the competent authorities shall periodically , and at least annually , assess whether the minimum LGD values in paragraph 4 of this Article are appropriate for exposures secured by residential or commercial immovable property located in their territory .
2	Competent authorities shall notify EBA of any changes to the minimum LGD values that they make in accordance with the first subparagraph and EBA shall publish these LGD values .
2	To apply a conversion factor of 0 % , institutions shall actively monitor the financial condition of the obligor .
2	When an institution uses multiple rating systems , the rationale for assigning an obligor or a transaction to a rating system shall be documented and applied in a manner that appropriately reflects the level of risk .
3	Assignment criteria and processes shall be periodically reviewed to determine whether they remain appropriate for the current portfolio and external conditions .
3	An institution shall maintain appropriate policies regarding the treatment of individual obligor clients and groups of connected clients .
3	Institutions shall review assignments at least annually and adjust the assignment when the result of the review does not justify carrying forward the current assignment .
3	High risk obligors and problem exposures shall be subject to more frequent review . 
3	An institution shall maintain an effective process to obtain and update relevant information on obligor characteristics that affect PDs , and on transaction characteristics that affect LGDs or conversion factors .
3	For retail exposures , an institution shall at least annually review obligor and facility assignments and adjust the assignment when the result of the review does not justify carrying forward the current assignment , or review the loss characteristics and delinquency status of each identified risk pool , whichever applicable .
3	The institution shall have a regular cycle of model validation that includes monitoring of model performance and stability ; review of model specification ; and testing of model outputs against outcomes .
1	The institutions shall document the design and operational details of its rating systems .
1	The institution shall document the rationale for and analysis supporting its choice of rating criteria .
2	An institution shall document all major changes in the risk rating process .
1	The institutions shall document the specific definitions of default and loss used internally and ensure consistency with the definitions set out in this Regulation .
2	When the institution employs statistical models in the rating process , the institution shall document their methodologies .
2	An institution shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the competent authority that the requirements of this Article are met , when an institution has obtained a rating system , or model used within a rating system , from a third - party vendor and that vendor refuses or restricts the access of the institution to information pertaining to the methodology of that rating system or model , or underlying data used to develop that methodology or model , on the basis that such information is proprietary .
3	Institutions shall collect and store data on aspects of their internal ratings as required under Part Eight .
2	For exposures to corporates , institutions and central governments and central banks , and for equity exposures when an institution uses the PD / LGD approach set out in Article 155(3 ) , institutions shall collect and store the dates the ratings were assigned .
3	For exposures to corporates , institutions and central governments and central banks , and for equity exposures when an institution uses the PD / LGD approach set out in Article 155(3 ) , institutions shall collect and store the dates the ratings were assigned .
3	Institutions using own estimates of LGDs and conversion factors shall collect and store data on the estimated and realised LGDs and conversion factors associated with each defaulted exposure .
3	An institution shall maintain sound stress testing processes for use in the assessment of its capital adequacy .
3	Institutions shall maintain documented policies in respect of the counting of days past due .
1	EBA shall publish guidelines on the application of this Article .
2	An institution shall ( if needed ) provide a breakdown of its loss experience in terms of default frequency , LGD , conversion factor , or loss when EL estimates are used , by the factors it sees as the drivers of the respective risk parameters .
3	The institution shall maintain sufficient in - house understanding of its rating systems , including the ability to effectively monitor and audit the rating process .
3	Institutions shall maintain adequate systems and procedures to monitor facility amounts , current outstandings against committed lines and changes in outstandings per obligor and per grade . 
2	The institution shall ( if needed ) monitor outstanding balances on a daily basis .
3	The institution shall ( if needed ) monitor outstanding balances on a daily basis .
2	If institutions use different estimates of conversion factors for the calculation of risk weighted exposure amounts and internal purposes it shall be documented and be reasonable .
3	Institutions shall regularly compare realised default rates with estimated PDs for each grade .
3	This analysis and documentation shall be updated at least annually .
2	Changes in estimation and validation methods and data ( both data sources and periods covered ) shall be documented .
2	They shall provide notice to the management body or a designated committee thereof of material changes or exceptions from established policies that will materially impact the operations of the institution 's rating systems .
3	Senior management shall be regularly informed by the credit risk control units about the performance of the rating process , areas needing improvement , and the status of efforts to improve previously identified deficiencies .
3	Internal audit or another comparable independent auditing unit shall review at least annually the institution 's rating systems and its operations , including the operations of the credit function and the estimation of PDs , LGDs , ELs and conversion factors . 
2	The lending institution shall provide , upon request of the competent authority , the most recent version of the independent , written and reasoned legal opinion or opinions that it used to establish whether its credit protection arrangement or arrangements meet the condition laid down in the first subparagraph .
3	Institutions shall carry out the assessment of this condition periodically and when information indicates material changes in the market .
1	EBA shall disclose a list of types of physical collateral for which institutions can assume that the conditions referred to in points ( a ) and ( b ) of paragraph 6 are met .
3	Competent authorities shall publish and maintain the list of those financial institutions that are eligible providers of unfunded credit protection under point ( f ) of paragraph 1 , or the guiding criteria for identifying such eligible providers of unfunded credit protection , together with a description of the applicable prudential requirements , and share their list with other competent authorities in accordance with Article 117 of Directive 2013/36/EU .
?	Institutions shall have conducted sufficient legal review confirming the enforceability of the collateral arrangements in all relevant jurisdictions .
2	Institutions shall have conducted sufficient legal review confirming the enforceability of the collateral arrangements in all relevant jurisdictions . They shall re - conduct such review as necessary to ensure continuing enforceability .
2	They shall re - conduct such review as necessary to ensure continuing enforceability .
3	They shall re - conduct such review as necessary to ensure continuing enforceability .
3	They shall maintain documented policies and practices concerning the types and amounts of collateral accepted .
3	Institutions shall maintain procedures to monitor that the property taken as credit protection is adequately insured against the risk of damage .
2	Institutions shall maintain procedures to monitor that the property taken as credit protection is adequately insured against the risk of damage .
3	Institutions shall maintain the requisite facilities for collection even when they normally rely on their borrowers for collections .
3	Institutions shall monitor the value of the collateral on a frequent basis and at least once every year .
2	Institutions shall carry out more frequent monitoring when the market is subject to significant changes in conditions .
3	Institutions shall carry out more frequent monitoring when the market is subject to significant changes in conditions .
2	Institutions shall clearly document in internal credit policies and procedures available for examination the types of physical collateral they accept and the policies and practices they maintain in respect of the appropriate amount of each type of collateral relative to the exposure amount .
3	Institutions shall clearly document in internal credit policies and procedures available for examination the types of physical collateral they accept and the policies and practices they maintain in respect of the appropriate amount of each type of collateral relative to the exposure amount .
3	They shall also maintain policies and procedures addressing their exercise of the right to physical inspection .
3	Institutions shall maintain procedures to monitor this .
2	The protection buyer has the right or ability to inform the protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event .
3	An independent review of the institution 's system for the estimation of volatility adjustments shall be carried out regularly within the institution 's own internal auditing process .
3	The competent authorities shall continuously inform EBA about the specific cases , referred to in paragraph 2 , when the possible reduction in risk - weighted exposure amounts is not justified by a commensurate transfer of credit risk to third parties .
2	EBA shall review the methodologies according to which competent authorities shall assess the methodology of an institution for estimating PD pursuant to Article 143 .
2	Institutions shall provide the resolution authority with the latest approved annual financial statements .
3	Institutions shall provide the resolution authority with the latest approved annual financial statements .
2	The competent authorities shall provide the resolution authorities any information enabling the resolution authorities to calculate the annual contributions .
3	The competent authorities shall provide the resolution authorities any information enabling the resolution authorities to calculate the annual contributions .